Hello ladies and gentlemen, today is an exciting day because not only is it the first of many Developer Logs (or 

journals, or diaries whatever you want to label them) but it is also the announcement video for a new project that

I am working on. 



That project is a game I'm calling "Monolith Projekt".



Monolith project is a colony survival game in which you have to keep a group of survivors alive by providing 
food,
 shelter, water, power, oxygen, and entertainment to keep everyone happy for them to be able to work at 
full efficiency. 



Not only will you need to manage your bases resources, you will need to gather new ones if you want to grow or 

even just sustain your base. But there will be creatures in this living world that your colonists can gather 
materials from (for example fiber from trees, meats, and oils from animals) in the living world. Although not all 
of these creatures are passive since any good ecosystem needs predators and on this planet, humans are no longer 
on the top of food chain. 



Although since you guys will see these features take shape and be added in over the next many weeks and I'm sure 
they will go through some big changes from what I've outlined here I won't go into too much detail so let us 
get
 into the actual devlog. For the sake of brevity, I won't be including the months of brainstorming and idea 
forming 
that took place among my friends and me, but will instead start on Tuesday, February 27, 2018.




On that Tuesday, I started out doing a bunch of boring paperwork and finalizing the ideas and how I was 
supposed 
to implement them. This was a pretty boring day as far as actual game development was concerned but it's 
important 
for any project to get a solid foundation. 



Wednesday brought forth a GitHub repository to make it easier for myself to share the files between the computers

I work on and make version control easier. I also got this, yes this, handy-dandy box opener. 



Thursday I actually started working on the game by building the procedural terrain generator. I got it to place a 

Perlin noise texture on a single tile (although the actual game will be infinite) and added colors for the

different biomes. 



Friday I got the engine to actually make 3D textures and then I played around with settings until I liked how the 
world looked for now and made the first creature model. I also added a bunch of sliders and inputs to change the 
terrain at will instead of having to change the values in the code. These include Level of Detail, Noise Scale, 
Octaves, Persistance, Lacunarity, Seed, and Offset. 



Saturday (which is today) I finished up the settings to a point where I like them enough to keep them for now and

started adding in the infinite terrain generator. 





Thanks for watching and I hope to see you next week, although I'll be gone next weekend so next week will be a

shorter week so expect the DevLog #2 sometime either Thursday or Friday.





See you all next time!